# Dictation: One On One Tutor

1. Community service is `an` important component of education here at our
university.

2. We encourage all students to volunteer for at least one community activity
before they graduate.

3. A new community program called `One On One` ~ one-on-one , ~ helps ~elementory~
elementary students `who've fallen` ~so far~ behind.

4. Your education majors `might` ~may~ be `especially` ~specially~ interested in `it`
because it offers `the` ~you~ opportunity to do some teaching `,` that is `,`
tutoring `in` math and English.

NOTE: teaching is not countable.

5. `You'd` ~you~ have to volunteer two hours a week for one semester.

6. You can choose `to` ~that~ help `a` child with math, English or both.

7. Half-hour lessons are fine. So you `could` ~can~ do `a` half hour of each
subject two days a week.

8. Professor Dodge `will act as a` ~the~ mentor to the tutors.

9. He will be available to help you with lesson plans or `to` ~he will~ offer
~you~ suggestions for `activies` ~activity~.

10. He has office hours every Tuesday and Thursday `afternoon`.

11. You can sign up for the program with him and begin the tutoring next week.

12. I am sure ~that~ you will enjoy this community service and you will gain
valuable experience at the same time.

13. It looks good on your resume too `, showing` ~. Showing~ that you `have`
had experience with children and `that` you care about your community.

14. `If you would` like to `sign up` ~signup~, or `if` you have any `suggestions,`
~suggestion~ stop by Professor Dodge's office this week.

NOTE: in American English in question sentence, any words behind `any` should be plural.
Ex: any ideas, any questions ...
