# [老托Part C.Insurance](http://toefl.kmf.com/listening/newdrilling/7254oh.html)

1. I hope `you've all` ~~you~~ finished reading the assigned chapter on insurance,
so that `you're prepared` ~~you prepare~~ for `our` discussion.

2. But `,` before we start, `I'd` ~~I~~ like to mention a few things your text
doesn't go into.

3. It's interesting to `note` ~know~ that insurance has existed in some `forms`
~form~ for a vary long time.

    Q: Did not hear the plural type of form clearly. How to identify it?

4. The `earliest` ~~early~~ insurance policies `were` ~~or~~ what we called `bottomry`
~~battering~ contracts.

5. They provided `shipping` ~~in shiping~~ protection for `merchants` ~~merchacies~~
`as far` ~~fall~~ back 3000 B.C.

6. In general, the contracts `were` ~~will~~ often no more than verbal agreements.

7. They granted `loans to merchants` ~~loan mergen~~ with the understanding
that if a particular shipment of goods was `lost at` ~~loosed to~~ sea`,` the load didn't
have to be `repaid` ~~repaired~~ .

8 Interest `on` ~~down~~ the loans `varied` ~~vary~~ according to how risky
`it` was to `transport` ~~transfer~~ the goods.

9. During periods of heavy `pirates at` ~~piracy~ sea, the amount ~~ammount~~
of interest `and the` ~~standard~~ cost of the policy `went up considerably`
~~considered to be blank~~.

10. So you can see how insurance helped ~~to~~ encourage international trade.

11. Even the most `cautious merchants` ~~causious merchains~~ became willing
to risk `shipping` ~~shiping~~ their good over long distances `,` not to mention
in `hazardous weather` when `they had` this kind of protection available.

Q: What is `risk shipping`

12. `Generally` ~~Generaly~~ speaking, the basic form of `an` insurance policy
has been pretty much the same since `Middle Ages` ~~meleges~~.

13. There are four points that `were salient` ~~we are saying in~~ then and
remain `paramount` in all policies today.

14. `These were` ~~It is~~ outlined in chapter 6 `and` will serve `as` the `basis`
~~bases~~ for the rest of today's discussion.

15. Can anyone tell me what one of those points might be?
