# [A Humble Fish with a Colorful Edge](https://www.scientificamerican.com/podcast/episode/a-humble-fish-with-a-colorful-edge/)

Hundreds of millions of years ago a humble fish swan in the lakes and rivers in the ~~supecontment Grodwana~~ supercontinent Godwana.
Eventually ~~Grodwana~~ Godwana broke apart, ~~becomming~~ becoming the ~~contement~~ continents we know today. And the ~~decendents~~ descendants of that fish,
now called ~~Cichids~~ cichlids, continue~~s~~ to ~~swin~~ swim ~~in~~ the fresh waters ~~in~~ of both Africa and South America.
~~Cichids~~ Cichlids have some of most incredible visual system known. Humans have genes that code for three different types of visual pigments,
called ~~opsin~~ opsins. Cichids have seven.

"But what is interesting within Cichids(,) which is ~~a~~ this group of vary diverse fishes(,) is that they can express different ~~sense~~ sets of ~~this~~ these seven genes.
So they only express (three) typically, but different species express different groups of these seven genes."

Biologist Daniel ~~Comacho~~Escobar-Camacho, from (the) University of Maryland (in) College Park.

"So for example(,) we have (opsin) genes that ~~goes~~ code for (the) blue, green, and red opsin ... whereas ~~Cichids~~ Cichlids have genes ~~to~~ (that are sensitive to )  UV, violet, blue, blue-green, light green, and red."

But selection ~~preasure~~ pressure has kept (only) some of those genes ~~atect~~ intact.

~~Affrican Cichids~~ African Cichlids, whose visual system(s) are well studied(,) evolve(ed) ~~from~~ in ~~vary~~ fairly clear, calm, blue lakes with (plenty of) sunlight. And it was known that ~~they~~ they've maintain(ed) the genes for seeing short wavelength (light, at) the blue ~~and~~ (end of) spectrum. But ~~in~~ their South America ~~Contuer park,~~ counterparts ~~living~~ live in (the) ~~murkey~~ murky water(s) in  Amazon River basin, ~~they~~ bathed mostly in  red(s) and orange(s). Escobar-Camacho ~~analyzes~~ analyzed the DNA from three different Amazonian cichlids, the freshwater angelfish, the Discus, the Oscar, all of which are also popular in home ~~aquariumes~~ aquariums.
He ~~discovers~~ discovered that each species has completely lost at least one of the seven opsin genes(,) and some ~~of them~~ (have) even lost two. But ~~they~~ they've each lost different genes.

"What is ~~instereting~~ interesting is (that) they (are) express(ing) genes in ~~their~~ the retina that allow them to be long ~~weavelength-sensitivity~~ wavelength-sensitive. And this in concordance with ~~that~~ light environment in Amazon waters(,) because Amazon waters transmit long wavelength best."

In other words, Amazonion cichlids are most sensitive to red and orange light.
Which make(s) sense because Amazonian rivers filter out most of ~~blue~~ most of blues and greens.
The result(s) are in the journal ~~Mlecular~~ Molecular Ecology. The finding is ~~consitent~~ consistent with ~~the~~ an idea called "sensitivity ~~hypothese~~ hypothesis",
which holds that a color visual system ~~evoles~~ evolves by adapting to the dominant ~~weav light~~ wavelengths (of light) in the environment.
In other words, what you get is what you see.

Jason G. Golman.
